# nf-core/diseasemodulediscovery: Output

## Introduction

This document describes the output produced by the pipeline. Most of the plots are taken from the MultiQC report, which summarises results at the end of the pipeline.

The directories listed below will be created in the results directory after the pipeline has finished. All paths are relative to the top-level results directory.

<!-- TODO nf-core: Write this documentation describing your workflow's output -->

## Pipeline overview

The pipeline is built using [Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/) and processes data using the following steps:

- [MultiQC](#multiqc) - Aggregate report describing results and QC from the whole pipeline
- [Pipeline information](#pipeline-information) - Report metrics generated during the workflow execution

### MultiQC

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `multiqc/`
  - `multiqc_report.html`: a standalone HTML file that can be viewed in your web browser.
  - `multiqc_data/`: directory containing parsed statistics from the different tools used in the pipeline.
  - `multiqc_plots/`: directory containing static images from the report in various formats.

</details>

[MultiQC](http://multiqc.info) is a visualization tool that generates a single HTML report summarising all samples in your project. Most of the pipeline QC results are visualised in the report and further statistics are available in the report data directory.

Results generated by MultiQC collate pipeline QC from supported tools e.g. FastQC. The pipeline has special steps which also allow the software versions to be reported in the MultiQC output for future traceability. For more information about how to use MultiQC reports, see <http://multiqc.info>.

### BioPax

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `biopax/`
  - `*.owl`: BioPax-files for each module in BioPax-format.
  - `biopax-validator-report.html`: a HTML file with the BioPax-validator results that can be viewed in your web browser.

</details>

[BioPax](http://www.biopax.org/release/biopax-level3-documentation.pdf), short for Biological Pathway Exchange,
is a standard language and format for representing biological pathway knowledge. This is how the created .owl files are structured:

#### Entities

- Proteins with UnificationXref and ProteinReference
- Genes with UnificationXref
- SmallMolecules as drugs with UnificationXref and SmallMoleculeReference

#### Relationships

- Protein encoded by gene as RelationshipXref
- Gene associated with disorder as RelationshipXref
- Drug targets protein as RelationshipXref
- Drug has sideeffect as RelationshipXref
- Protein is in cellular component as RelationshipXref

#### Interactions

- Protein interactions as MolecularInteraction

#### Notes

If the network hands over uniprot-ids, only those are used and mapped to the encoding genes. If entrez-ids are given, all encoded proteins by those genes are considered.

#### Validator

The BioPax-validator validates the created BioPax-files and generates a report in HTML-format in order to check on errors or warnings in the files.

### Pipeline information

<details markdown="1">
<summary>Output files</summary>

- `pipeline_info/`
  - Reports generated by Nextflow: `execution_report.html`, `execution_timeline.html`, `execution_trace.txt` and `pipeline_dag.dot`/`pipeline_dag.svg`.
  - Reports generated by the pipeline: `pipeline_report.html`, `pipeline_report.txt` and `software_versions.yml`. The `pipeline_report*` files will only be present if the `--email` / `--email_on_fail` parameter's are used when running the pipeline.
  - Reformatted samplesheet files used as input to the pipeline: `samplesheet.valid.csv`.
  - Parameters used by the pipeline run: `params.json`.

</details>

[Nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/tracing.html) provides excellent functionality for generating various reports relevant to the running and execution of the pipeline. This will allow you to troubleshoot errors with the running of the pipeline, and also provide you with other information such as launch commands, run times and resource usage.
